# Welcome to my Craft Demo!

## Contents of this repository:

### 1.) actual code in src and pom.xml
### 2.) UML diagrams representing interactions between components in this system.
### 3.) github repository link: https://github.com/abhiachalla/Customer-Scheduler
### (Note: github link is made public!)


## Description of this project:

### This project uses an MVC architecture to achieve the expeceted behavior. This project successfully implements a Customer Service Scheduler that allows customers to check in and be served by the employees in the order generated by the scheduler (2:1 VIP to Normal). This project implements all the required functionalities in Part 1, 2, and 3. I have taken a Test-Driven Development approach while developing this project. 



## Components in this system (found in the UML diagram - UML_Mailchimp.pdf)

### a.) Controllers:
#### a.1) Customer Controller: Handles customer endpoints such as "checkIn" and "getSequenceNumber"
#### a.2) Employee Controller: Handles enpoints such as "/serveNextCustomer", "freeEmployee"

### b.) Services:
#### b.1) Customer Service: Implements the check in functionality and communicates with the Repository layer.
#### b.2) Employee Controller: Handles all the employee functionality and communicates with the Repository layer.
#### b.3) Scheduler Service: Actual logic handling of serving next customer in order and check in.

### c.) Repositories/DAO layer (Data Access Object):
#### c.1) Customer Repository: Stores customer name, phone number, and requests.
#### c.2) Employee Repository: Stores employee name, customer currently serving.

### d.) Models:
#### d.1) Customer Model: Backbone structure of how customers are persisted in DB.
#### d.2) Employee Model: Backbone structure of how employees are stored in DB.


## Technologies/tools used for this project:

### Java (primary language for the MVC architecture)
### Spring Boot (backend framework)
### MySQL and SQLWorkBench for Database persistence
### H2 in memory database (replaced with MySQL for exploring reasons)
### JPA for Object Relational Mapping and JDBC. 
### JUnit 5 and Mockito (for unit testing)
### Insomnia, Postman, and curl (for REST APIs testing)
### JavaScript, CSS, HTML (for frontend) - will demo during interview :) 
